GROUPS.md, before:

# Working Groups

Most community activity is organized into Working Groups.

Working Groups follow the [contributing](CONTRIBUTING.md) guidelines although each of these groups may operate a little differently depending on their needs and workflow.

When the need arises, a new working group can be created, please contact the [istio-core](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/istio-core) working group if you think a new group is necessary.

## Master Working Group List

| Name | Leads | Mailing List | Example Topics |
|------|-------|---------|----------|
| Core | Sven Mawson (Google), Louis Ryan (Google), Martin Taillefer (Google), Shriram Rajagopalan (IBM), Dan Berg (IBM) | [istio-core@](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/istio-core) | Configuration, Performance, Stability |
| Security | Wencheng Lu (Google), Etai Lev-Ran (IBM), Michael Elder (IBM) | [istio-security@](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/istio-security) | Service-to-service Auth, Identity/CA/SecretStore plugins, Identity Federation, End User Auth, Authority Delegation, Auditing  |
| Networking | Andra Cismaru (Google), Kuat Yessenov (Google), Shriram Rajagopalan (IBM), Christopher Luciano (IBM) | [istio-networking@](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/istio-networking) | Pilot integration, TCP Support, Additional L7 protocols, Proxy injection |
| Environments | Costin Manolache (Google), Laurent Demailly (Google), Jose Ortiz (IBM) | [istio-environments@](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/istio-environments) | Raw VM support, Hybrid Mesh, Mac/Windows support, Cloud Foundry integration |
| Integrations | Martin Taillefer (Google), Todd Kaplinger (IBM) | [istio-integrations@](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/istio-integrations) | Mixer Adapter Model, Rate Limiting, Tracing, Monitoring, Logging |
| API Management | Wencheng Lu (Google), Jason Allor (Google), Tony Ffrench (IBM) | [istio-api-management@](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/istio-api-management) | API Keys, Content Mediation, Content Translation, OpenAPI Ingestion |

Commit message:

Add link to community drive for design docs
Get folks to join the drive rather than requesting access for each doc. :/

GROUPS.md, after:

# Working Groups

Most community activity is organized into Working Groups.

Working Groups follow the [contributing](CONTRIBUTING.md) guidelines although each of these groups may operate a little differently depending on their needs and workflow.

When the need arises, a new working group can be created, please contact the [istio-core](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/istio-core) working group if you think a new group is necessary.

The working groups generate design docs which are kept in a [shared drive](https://drive.google.com/drive/u/0/folders/0AIS5p3eW9BCtUk9PVA) and are available for anyone to read. You have to request access to the drive, something we're stuck with sadly, but once you do you'll have access to all the docs and won't need to request access for each of them individually.

## Master Working Group List

| Name | Leads | Mailing List | Example Topics |
|------|-------|---------|----------|
| Core | Sven Mawson (Google), Louis Ryan (Google), Martin Taillefer (Google), Shriram Rajagopalan (IBM), Dan Berg (IBM) | [istio-core@](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/istio-core) | Configuration, Performance, Stability |
| Security | Wencheng Lu (Google), Etai Lev-Ran (IBM), Michael Elder (IBM) | [istio-security@](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/istio-security) | Service-to-service Auth, Identity/CA/SecretStore plugins, Identity Federation, End User Auth, Authority Delegation, Auditing  |
| Networking | Andra Cismaru (Google), Kuat Yessenov (Google), Shriram Rajagopalan (IBM), Christopher Luciano (IBM) | [istio-networking@](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/istio-networking) | Pilot integration, TCP Support, Additional L7 protocols, Proxy injection |
| Environments | Costin Manolache (Google), Laurent Demailly (Google), Jose Ortiz (IBM) | [istio-environments@](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/istio-environments) | Raw VM support, Hybrid Mesh, Mac/Windows support, Cloud Foundry integration |
| Integrations | Martin Taillefer (Google), Todd Kaplinger (IBM) | [istio-integrations@](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/istio-integrations) | Mixer Adapter Model, Rate Limiting, Tracing, Monitoring, Logging |
| API Management | Wencheng Lu (Google), Jason Allor (Google), Tony Ffrench (IBM) | [istio-api-management@](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/istio-api-management) | API Keys, Content Mediation, Content Translation, OpenAPI Ingestion |
