cni/README.md, before:

# Istio CNI Node Agent

The Istio CNI Node Agent is responsible for several things

- Install an Istio CNI plugin binary on each node's filesystem, updating that node's CNI config in e.g (`/etc/cni/net.d`), and watching the config and binary paths to reinstall if things are modified.
- In sidecar mode, the CNI plugin can configure sidecar networking for pods when they are scheduled by the container runtime, using iptables. The CNI handling the netns setup replaces the current Istio approach using a `NET_ADMIN` privileged `initContainers` container, `istio-init`, injected in the pods along with `istio-proxy` sidecars. This removes the need for a privileged, `NET_ADMIN` container in the Istio users' application pods.
- In ambient mode, the CNI plugin does not configure any networking but is only responsible for synchronously pushing new pod events back up to an ambient watch server which runs as part of the Istio CNI node agent. The ambient server will find the pod netns and configure networking inside that pod via iptables. The ambient server will additionally watch enabled namespaces and enroll already-started-but-newly-enrolled pods in a similar fashion.

## Development

The Istio cni-plugin has a hard dependency on Linux. Some efforts have been made to allow non-functional builds on non-Linux OSes but these are not universal. For most any reasonable intents and purposes only building on Linux is supported. If you are on a non-Linux development environment use `make shell`.

Most any Linux architecture supported by Go should work. Istio is only tested on AMD64 and ARM64.

## Privileges required

Regardless of mode, the Istio CNI Node Agent requires privileged node permissions, and will require allow-listing in constrained environments that block privileged workloads by default. If using sidecar repair mode or ambient mode, the node agent additionally needs permissions to enter pod network namespaces and perform networking configuration in them. If either sidecar repair or ambient mode are enabled, on startup the container will drop all Linux capabilities via (`drop:ALL`), and re-add back the ones sidecar repair/ambient explicitly require to function, namely:

- CAP_SYS_ADMIN
- CAP_NET_ADMIN
- CAP_NET_RAW

## Ambient mode details

See [architecture doc](../architecture/ambient/ztunnel-cni-lifecycle.md).

## Reference

### Design details

Broadly, `istio-cni` accomplishes ambient redirection by instructing ztunnel to set up sockets within the application pod network namespace, where:

- one end of the socket is in the application pod
- and the other end is in ztunnel's pod

and setting up iptables rules to funnel traffic thru that socket "tube" to ztunnel and back.

This effectively behaves like ztunnel is an in-pod sidecar, without actually requiring the injection of ztunnel as a sidecar into the pod manifest, or mutating the application pod in any way.

Additionally, it does not require any network rules/routing/config in the host network namespace, which greatly increases ambient mode compatibility with 3rd-party CNIs. In virtually all cases, this "in-pod" ambient CNI is exactly as compatible with 3rd-party CNIs as sidecars are/were.

### Notable Env Vars

| Env Var            | Default         | Purpose                                                                                                                                                                |
|--------------------|-----------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| HOST_PROBE_SNAT_IP | "169.254.7.127" | Applied to SNAT host probe packets, so they can be identified/skipped podside. To override the default SNAT IP, use any address from the 169.254.0.0/16 block. |
| HOST_PROBE_SNAT_IPV6 | "fd16:9254:7127:1337:ffff:ffff:ffff:ffff" | IPv6 link local ranges are designed to be collision-resistant by default, and so this probably never needs to be overridden.                                           |

## Sidecar Mode Implementation Details

Istio CNI injection is currently based on the same Pod annotations used in init-container/inject mode.

### Selection API

- plugin config "exclude namespaces" applies first
- ambient is enabled if:
    - namespace label "istio.io/dataplane-mode" == "ambient", and/or pod label "istio.io/dataplane-mode" == "ambient"
    - "sidecar.istio.io/status" annotation is not present on the pod (created by injection of sidecar)
    - pod label "istio.io/dataplane-mode" is not "none"
- sidecar interception is enabled if:
    - "istio-init" container is not present in the pod.
    - istio-proxy container exists and
        - does not have DISABLE_ENVOY environment variable (which triggers proxyless mode)
        - has a istio-proxy container, with first 2 args "proxy" and "sidecar" - or less then 2 args, or first arg not proxy.
        - "sidecar.istio.io/inject" is not false
        - "sidecar.istio.io/status" exists

### Redirect API

The annotation based control is currently only supported in 'sidecar' mode. See plugin/redirect.go for details.

- redirectMode allows TPROXY may to be set, required envoy has extra permissions. Default is redirect.
- includeIPCidr, excludeIPCidr
- includeInboundPorts, excludeInboundPorts
- includeOutboundPorts, excludeOutboundPorts
- excludeInterfaces
- kubevirtInterfaces (deprecated), reroute-virtual-interfaces
- ISTIO_META_DNS_CAPTURE env variable on the proxy - enables dns redirect
- INVALID_DROP env var on proxy - changes behavior from reset to drop in iptables
- auto excluded inbound ports: 15020, 15021, 15090

The code automatically detects the proxyUID and proxyGID from RunAsUser/RunAsGroup and exclude them from interception, defaulting to 1337

### Overview

- [istio-cni Helm chart](../manifests/charts/istio-cni/templates)
    - `install-cni` daemonset - main function is to install and help the node CNI, but it is also a proper server and interacts with K8S, watching Pods for recovery.
    - `istio-cni-config` configmap with CNI plugin config to add to CNI plugin chained config
    - creates service-account `istio-cni` with `ClusterRoleBinding` to allow gets on pods' info and delete/modifications for recovery.

- `install-cni` container
    - copies `istio-cni` and `istio-iptables` to `/opt/cni/bin`
    - creates kubeconfig for the service account the pod runs under
    - periodically copy the K8S JWT token for istio-cni on the host to connect to K8S.
    - injects the CNI plugin config to the CNI config file
        - CNI installer will try to look for the config file under the mounted CNI net dir based on file name extensions (`.conf`, `.conflist`)
        - the file name can be explicitly set by `CNI_CONF_NAME` env var
        - the program inserts `CNI_NETWORK_CONFIG` into the `plugins` list in `/etc/cni/net.d/${CNI_CONF_NAME}`
    - the actual code is in pkg/install - including a readiness probe, monitoring.
    - it also sets up a UDS socket for istio-cni to send logs to this container.
    - based on config, it may run the 'repair' controller that detects pods where istio setup fails and restarts them, or created in corner cases.
    - if ambient is enabled, also runs an ambient controller, watching Pod, Namespace

- `istio-cni`
    - CNI plugin executable copied to `/opt/cni/bin`
    - currently implemented for k8s only
    - on pod add, determines whether pod should have netns setup to redirect to Istio proxy. See [cmdAdd](#cmdadd-workflow) for detailed logic.
        - it connects to K8S using the kubeconfig and JWT token copied from install-cni to get Pod and Namespace. Since this is a short-running command, each invocation creates a new connection.
        - If so, calls `istio-iptables` with params to setup pod netns
        - If ambient, sets up the ambient logic.

- `istio-iptables`
    - sets up iptables to redirect a list of ports to the port envoy will listen
    - shared code with istio-init container
    - it will generate an iptables-save config, based on annotations/labels and other settings, and apply it.

### CmdAdd Sidecar Workflow

`CmdAdd` is triggered when there is a new pod created. This runs on the node, in a chain of CNI plugins - Istio is
run after the main CNI sets up the pod IP and networking.

1. Check k8s pod namespace against exclusion list (plugin config)
    - Config must exclude namespace that Istio control-plane is installed in (TODO: this may change, exclude at pod level is sufficient and we may want Istiod and other istio components to use ambient too)
    - If excluded, ignore the pod and return prevResult
1. Setup redirect rules for the pods:
    - Get the port list from pods definition, as well as annotations.
    - Setup iptables with required port list: `nsenter --net=<k8s pod netns> /opt/cni/bin/istio-iptables ...`. Following conditions will prevent the redirect rules to be setup in the pods:
        - Pods have annotation `sidecar.istio.io/inject` set to `false` or has no key `sidecar.istio.io/status` in annotations
        - Pod has `istio-init` initContainer - this indicates a pod running its own injection setup.
1. Return prevResult

## Troubleshooting

### Collecting Logs

#### Using `istioctl`/helm

- Set: `values.global.logging.level="cni:debug,ambient:debug"`
- Inspect the pod logs of a `istio-cni` Daemonset pod on a specific node.

#### From a specific node syslog

The CNI plugins are executed by threads in the `kubelet` process.  The CNI plugins logs end up the syslog
under the `kubelet` process. On systems with `journalctl` the following is an example command line
to view the last 1000 `kubelet` logs via the `less` utility to allow for `vi`-style searching:

```console
$ journalctl -t kubelet -n 1000 | less
```

#### GKE via Stackdriver Log Viewer

Each GKE cluster's will have many categories of logs collected by Stackdriver.  Logs can be monitored via
the project's [log viewer](https://cloud.google.com/logging/docs/view/overview) and/or the `gcloud logging read`
capability.

The following example grabs the last 10 `kubelet` logs containing the string "cmdAdd" in the log message.

```console
$ gcloud logging read "resource.type=k8s_node AND jsonPayload.SYSLOG_IDENTIFIER=kubelet AND jsonPayload.MESSAGE:cmdAdd" --limit 10 --format json
```

## Other Reference

The framework for this implementation of the CNI plugin is based on the
[containernetworking sample plugin](https://github.com/containernetworking/plugins/tree/main/plugins/sample)

The details for the deployment & installation of this plugin were pretty much lifted directly from the
[Calico CNI plugin](https://github.com/projectcalico/cni-plugin).

Specifically:

- The CNI installation script is containerized and deployed as a daemonset in k8s.  The relevant calico k8s manifests were used as the model for the istio-cni plugin's manifest:
    - [daemonset and configmap](https://docs.projectcalico.org/v3.2/getting-started/kubernetes/installation/hosted/calico.yaml) - search for the `calico-node` Daemonset and its `install-cni` container deployment
    - [RBAC](https://docs.projectcalico.org/v3.2/getting-started/kubernetes/installation/rbac.yaml) - this creates the service account the CNI plugin is configured to use to access the kube-api-server

Commit message:

docs: Add documentation for useHostIPForProbeSnat option
- Update CNI README with Cilium kubeproxyReplacement configuration
- Update Helm chart README with Cilium-specific instructions
- Document the useHostIPForProbeSnat option and its usage
- Reference issue #57911 for additional context

cni/README.md, after:

# Istio CNI Node Agent

The Istio CNI Node Agent is responsible for several things

- Install an Istio CNI plugin binary on each node's filesystem, updating that node's CNI config in e.g (`/etc/cni/net.d`), and watching the config and binary paths to reinstall if things are modified.
- In sidecar mode, the CNI plugin can configure sidecar networking for pods when they are scheduled by the container runtime, using iptables. The CNI handling the netns setup replaces the current Istio approach using a `NET_ADMIN` privileged `initContainers` container, `istio-init`, injected in the pods along with `istio-proxy` sidecars. This removes the need for a privileged, `NET_ADMIN` container in the Istio users' application pods.
- In ambient mode, the CNI plugin does not configure any networking but is only responsible for synchronously pushing new pod events back up to an ambient watch server which runs as part of the Istio CNI node agent. The ambient server will find the pod netns and configure networking inside that pod via iptables. The ambient server will additionally watch enabled namespaces and enroll already-started-but-newly-enrolled pods in a similar fashion.

## Development

The Istio cni-plugin has a hard dependency on Linux. Some efforts have been made to allow non-functional builds on non-Linux OSes but these are not universal. For most any reasonable intents and purposes only building on Linux is supported. If you are on a non-Linux development environment use `make shell`.

Most any Linux architecture supported by Go should work. Istio is only tested on AMD64 and ARM64.

## Privileges required

Regardless of mode, the Istio CNI Node Agent requires privileged node permissions, and will require allow-listing in constrained environments that block privileged workloads by default. If using sidecar repair mode or ambient mode, the node agent additionally needs permissions to enter pod network namespaces and perform networking configuration in them. If either sidecar repair or ambient mode are enabled, on startup the container will drop all Linux capabilities via (`drop:ALL`), and re-add back the ones sidecar repair/ambient explicitly require to function, namely:

- CAP_SYS_ADMIN
- CAP_NET_ADMIN
- CAP_NET_RAW

## Ambient mode details

See [architecture doc](../architecture/ambient/ztunnel-cni-lifecycle.md).

## Reference

### Design details

Broadly, `istio-cni` accomplishes ambient redirection by instructing ztunnel to set up sockets within the application pod network namespace, where:

- one end of the socket is in the application pod
- and the other end is in ztunnel's pod

and setting up iptables rules to funnel traffic thru that socket "tube" to ztunnel and back.

This effectively behaves like ztunnel is an in-pod sidecar, without actually requiring the injection of ztunnel as a sidecar into the pod manifest, or mutating the application pod in any way.

Additionally, it does not require any network rules/routing/config in the host network namespace, which greatly increases ambient mode compatibility with 3rd-party CNIs. In virtually all cases, this "in-pod" ambient CNI is exactly as compatible with 3rd-party CNIs as sidecars are/were.

### Notable Env Vars

| Env Var            | Default         | Purpose                                                                                                                                                                |
|--------------------|-----------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| HOST_PROBE_SNAT_IP | "169.254.7.127" | Applied to SNAT host probe packets, so they can be identified/skipped podside. To override the default SNAT IP, use any address from the 169.254.0.0/16 block. Alternatively, set `useHostIPForProbeSnat: true` in the Helm values to use the host node's IP address instead. |
| HOST_PROBE_SNAT_IPV6 | "fd16:9254:7127:1337:ffff:ffff:ffff:ffff" | IPv6 link local ranges are designed to be collision-resistant by default, and so this probably never needs to be overridden.                                           |

## Sidecar Mode Implementation Details

Istio CNI injection is currently based on the same Pod annotations used in init-container/inject mode.

### Selection API

- plugin config "exclude namespaces" applies first
- ambient is enabled if:
    - namespace label "istio.io/dataplane-mode" == "ambient", and/or pod label "istio.io/dataplane-mode" == "ambient"
    - "sidecar.istio.io/status" annotation is not present on the pod (created by injection of sidecar)
    - pod label "istio.io/dataplane-mode" is not "none"
- sidecar interception is enabled if:
    - "istio-init" container is not present in the pod.
    - istio-proxy container exists and
        - does not have DISABLE_ENVOY environment variable (which triggers proxyless mode)
        - has a istio-proxy container, with first 2 args "proxy" and "sidecar" - or less then 2 args, or first arg not proxy.
        - "sidecar.istio.io/inject" is not false
        - "sidecar.istio.io/status" exists

### Redirect API

The annotation based control is currently only supported in 'sidecar' mode. See plugin/redirect.go for details.

- redirectMode allows TPROXY may to be set, required envoy has extra permissions. Default is redirect.
- includeIPCidr, excludeIPCidr
- includeInboundPorts, excludeInboundPorts
- includeOutboundPorts, excludeOutboundPorts
- excludeInterfaces
- kubevirtInterfaces (deprecated), reroute-virtual-interfaces
- ISTIO_META_DNS_CAPTURE env variable on the proxy - enables dns redirect
- INVALID_DROP env var on proxy - changes behavior from reset to drop in iptables
- auto excluded inbound ports: 15020, 15021, 15090

The code automatically detects the proxyUID and proxyGID from RunAsUser/RunAsGroup and exclude them from interception, defaulting to 1337

### Overview

- [istio-cni Helm chart](../manifests/charts/istio-cni/templates)
    - `install-cni` daemonset - main function is to install and help the node CNI, but it is also a proper server and interacts with K8S, watching Pods for recovery.
    - `istio-cni-config` configmap with CNI plugin config to add to CNI plugin chained config
    - creates service-account `istio-cni` with `ClusterRoleBinding` to allow gets on pods' info and delete/modifications for recovery.

- `install-cni` container
    - copies `istio-cni` and `istio-iptables` to `/opt/cni/bin`
    - creates kubeconfig for the service account the pod runs under
    - periodically copy the K8S JWT token for istio-cni on the host to connect to K8S.
    - injects the CNI plugin config to the CNI config file
        - CNI installer will try to look for the config file under the mounted CNI net dir based on file name extensions (`.conf`, `.conflist`)
        - the file name can be explicitly set by `CNI_CONF_NAME` env var
        - the program inserts `CNI_NETWORK_CONFIG` into the `plugins` list in `/etc/cni/net.d/${CNI_CONF_NAME}`
    - the actual code is in pkg/install - including a readiness probe, monitoring.
    - it also sets up a UDS socket for istio-cni to send logs to this container.
    - based on config, it may run the 'repair' controller that detects pods where istio setup fails and restarts them, or created in corner cases.
    - if ambient is enabled, also runs an ambient controller, watching Pod, Namespace

- `istio-cni`
    - CNI plugin executable copied to `/opt/cni/bin`
    - currently implemented for k8s only
    - on pod add, determines whether pod should have netns setup to redirect to Istio proxy. See [cmdAdd](#cmdadd-workflow) for detailed logic.
        - it connects to K8S using the kubeconfig and JWT token copied from install-cni to get Pod and Namespace. Since this is a short-running command, each invocation creates a new connection.
        - If so, calls `istio-iptables` with params to setup pod netns
        - If ambient, sets up the ambient logic.

- `istio-iptables`
    - sets up iptables to redirect a list of ports to the port envoy will listen
    - shared code with istio-init container
    - it will generate an iptables-save config, based on annotations/labels and other settings, and apply it.

### CmdAdd Sidecar Workflow

`CmdAdd` is triggered when there is a new pod created. This runs on the node, in a chain of CNI plugins - Istio is
run after the main CNI sets up the pod IP and networking.

1. Check k8s pod namespace against exclusion list (plugin config)
    - Config must exclude namespace that Istio control-plane is installed in (TODO: this may change, exclude at pod level is sufficient and we may want Istiod and other istio components to use ambient too)
    - If excluded, ignore the pod and return prevResult
1. Setup redirect rules for the pods:
    - Get the port list from pods definition, as well as annotations.
    - Setup iptables with required port list: `nsenter --net=<k8s pod netns> /opt/cni/bin/istio-iptables ...`. Following conditions will prevent the redirect rules to be setup in the pods:
        - Pods have annotation `sidecar.istio.io/inject` set to `false` or has no key `sidecar.istio.io/status` in annotations
        - Pod has `istio-init` initContainer - this indicates a pod running its own injection setup.
1. Return prevResult

## CNI-Specific Configurations

### Cilium with kubeproxyReplacement

When using Istio Ambient Mesh with Cilium CNI and `kubeproxyReplacement` enabled, readiness and liveness probes may fail even after disabling the masquerade option in the Cilium ConfigMap. This occurs because eBPF programs in Cilium enforce the kubeproxyReplacement functionality.

To resolve this issue, you need to use a routable IP address for probe SNAT instead of the default link-local IP (169.254.7.127). This can be accomplished by enabling the `useHostIPForProbeSnat` option in the istio-cni Helm chart:

```yaml
useHostIPForProbeSnat: true
```

Or via Helm:

```bash
--set useHostIPForProbeSnat=true
```

This will set the `HOST_PROBE_SNAT_IP` environment variable to the host node's IP address (`status.hostIP`), allowing probes to continue flowing from the kubelet to pods.

For more information, see [issue #57911](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/57911).

## Troubleshooting

### Collecting Logs

#### Using `istioctl`/helm

- Set: `values.global.logging.level="cni:debug,ambient:debug"`
- Inspect the pod logs of a `istio-cni` Daemonset pod on a specific node.

#### From a specific node syslog

The CNI plugins are executed by threads in the `kubelet` process.  The CNI plugins logs end up the syslog
under the `kubelet` process. On systems with `journalctl` the following is an example command line
to view the last 1000 `kubelet` logs via the `less` utility to allow for `vi`-style searching:

```console
$ journalctl -t kubelet -n 1000 | less
```

#### GKE via Stackdriver Log Viewer

Each GKE cluster's will have many categories of logs collected by Stackdriver.  Logs can be monitored via
the project's [log viewer](https://cloud.google.com/logging/docs/view/overview) and/or the `gcloud logging read`
capability.

The following example grabs the last 10 `kubelet` logs containing the string "cmdAdd" in the log message.

```console
$ gcloud logging read "resource.type=k8s_node AND jsonPayload.SYSLOG_IDENTIFIER=kubelet AND jsonPayload.MESSAGE:cmdAdd" --limit 10 --format json
```

## Other Reference

The framework for this implementation of the CNI plugin is based on the
[containernetworking sample plugin](https://github.com/containernetworking/plugins/tree/main/plugins/sample)

The details for the deployment & installation of this plugin were pretty much lifted directly from the
[Calico CNI plugin](https://github.com/projectcalico/cni-plugin).

Specifically:

- The CNI installation script is containerized and deployed as a daemonset in k8s.  The relevant calico k8s manifests were used as the model for the istio-cni plugin's manifest:
    - [daemonset and configmap](https://docs.projectcalico.org/v3.2/getting-started/kubernetes/installation/hosted/calico.yaml) - search for the `calico-node` Daemonset and its `install-cni` container deployment
    - [RBAC](https://docs.projectcalico.org/v3.2/getting-started/kubernetes/installation/rbac.yaml) - this creates the service account the CNI plugin is configured to use to access the kube-api-server
