manifests/charts/UPDATING-CHARTS.md, before:

<!-- markdown-toc start - Don't edit this section. Run M-x markdown-toc-refresh-toc -->
# Table of Contents

- [Updating charts and values.yaml](#updating-charts-and-valuesyaml)
    - [Acceptable Pull Requests](#acceptable-pull-requests)
    - [Making changes](#making-changes)
    - [Value deprecation](#value-deprecation)

<!-- markdown-toc end -->

# Updating charts and values.yaml

## Acceptable Pull Requests

Helm charts `values.yaml` represent a complex user facing API that tends to grow uncontrollably over time
due to design choices in Helm.
The underlying Kubernetes resources we configure have 1000s of fields; given enough users and bespoke use cases,
eventually someone will want to customize every one of those fields.
If all fields are exposed in `values.yaml`, we end up with an massive API that is also likely worse than just using the Kubernetes API directly.

To avoid this, the project attempts to minimize additions to the `values.yaml` API where possible.

- Helm is for configuration that is expected to be set at install-time only. If the change is a dynamic runtime configuration, it probably belongs in the [MeshConfig API](https://github.com/istio/api/blob/master/mesh/v1alpha1/config.proto). This allows configuration without re-installing or restarting deployments.

- Adding new `global` values is discouraged as a general rule. The only exceptions are values that are frequently and consistently consumed across at least 2 charts (things like image tags, common labels, etc), but these would only be accepted on a strict case-by-case basis.

- If the change is to a Kubernetes field (such as modifying a Deployment attribute), it will likely need to be install-time configuration. However, that doesn't necessarily mean a PR to add a value will be accepted. The `values.yaml` API is intended to maintain a *minimal core set of configuration* that most users will use. For bespoke use cases, [Helm Chart Customization](https://istio.io/latest/docs/setup/additional-setup/customize-installation-helm/#advanced-helm-chart-customization) can be used to allow arbitrary customizations.

- Avoid exposing a single subkey of a multi-value field if it would be more flexible to expose the entire field as arbitrary YAML. If the change truly is generally purpose, it is generally preferred to have broader APIs. For example, instead of providing direct access to each of the complex fields in [affinity](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/assign-pod-node/), just providing a single `affinity` field that is passed through as-is to the Kubernetes resource. This provides maximum flexibility with minimal API surface overhead.

- All value additions or removals are user-facing and must come with a release note.

- If you find yourself writing the same templating logic across several charts or needing to craft complex conditionals, consider using a shared Helm template for consistency rather than inlining.

## Making changes

### Step 1. Make changes in charts and values.yaml in `manifests` directory

Be sure to provide sufficient documentation and example usage in values.yaml.

- If the chart has a `values.schema.json`, that should be updated as well.

### Step 2. Update the istioctl/Operator values

If you are modifying the `gateway` chart, you can stop here.
All other charts, however, are exposed by `istioctl` and need to follow the steps below.

- The charts in the `manifests` directory are used in istioctl to generate an installation manifest.

- If `values.yaml` is changed, be sure to update corresponding values changes in [../profiles/default.yaml](../profiles/default.yaml)

### Step 3. Update istioctl schema

Istioctl uses a [schema](../../operator/pkg/apis/values_types.proto) to validate the values. Any changes to
the schema must be added here, otherwise istioctl users will see errors.
Once the schema file is updated, run:

```bash
$ make operator-proto
```

This will regenerate the Go structs used for schema validation.

### Step 4. Update the generated manifests

Tests of istioctl use the auto-generated manifests to ensure that the istioctl binary has the correct version of the charts.

To regenerate the manifests, run:

```bash
$ make copy-templates update-golden
```

### Step 5. Create a PR using outputs from Steps 1 to 4

Your PR should pass all the checks if you followed these steps.

## Value deprecation

- Values may be marked as deprecated, but may not be removed until a minimum of 2 releases after the PR marking them as such is merged.

- If you are _marking_ a value as `deprecated`, the PR doing so **must* add a [release note](../../releasenotes/README.md) mentioning the value being deprecated, and any replacements/alternatives.

- When _removing_ a value that has been marked as `deprecated` for a minimum of 2 releases, **both** the `releaseNote` and `upgradeNote` fields must be populated in the release note in the removal PR, mentioning the value being removed, and any replacements/alternatives.

Commit message:

UPDATING-CHARTS.md: be more explicit in about protobuf updates
fixes #57230

manifests/charts/UPDATING-CHARTS.md, after:

<!-- markdown-toc start - Don't edit this section. Run M-x markdown-toc-refresh-toc -->
# Table of Contents

- [Updating charts and values.yaml](#updating-charts-and-valuesyaml)
    - [Acceptable Pull Requests](#acceptable-pull-requests)
    - [Making changes](#making-changes)
    - [Value deprecation](#value-deprecation)

<!-- markdown-toc end -->

# Updating charts and values.yaml

## Acceptable Pull Requests

Helm charts `values.yaml` represent a complex user facing API that tends to grow uncontrollably over time
due to design choices in Helm.
The underlying Kubernetes resources we configure have 1000s of fields; given enough users and bespoke use cases,
eventually someone will want to customize every one of those fields.
If all fields are exposed in `values.yaml`, we end up with an massive API that is also likely worse than just using the Kubernetes API directly.

To avoid this, the project attempts to minimize additions to the `values.yaml` API where possible.

- Helm is for configuration that is expected to be set at install-time only. If the change is a dynamic runtime configuration, it probably belongs in the [MeshConfig API](https://github.com/istio/api/blob/master/mesh/v1alpha1/config.proto). This allows configuration without re-installing or restarting deployments.

- Adding new `global` values is discouraged as a general rule. The only exceptions are values that are frequently and consistently consumed across at least 2 charts (things like image tags, common labels, etc), but these would only be accepted on a strict case-by-case basis.

- If the change is to a Kubernetes field (such as modifying a Deployment attribute), it will likely need to be install-time configuration. However, that doesn't necessarily mean a PR to add a value will be accepted. The `values.yaml` API is intended to maintain a *minimal core set of configuration* that most users will use. For bespoke use cases, [Helm Chart Customization](https://istio.io/latest/docs/setup/additional-setup/customize-installation-helm/#advanced-helm-chart-customization) can be used to allow arbitrary customizations.

- Avoid exposing a single subkey of a multi-value field if it would be more flexible to expose the entire field as arbitrary YAML. If the change truly is generally purpose, it is generally preferred to have broader APIs. For example, instead of providing direct access to each of the complex fields in [affinity](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/assign-pod-node/), just providing a single `affinity` field that is passed through as-is to the Kubernetes resource. This provides maximum flexibility with minimal API surface overhead.

- All value additions or removals are user-facing and must come with a release note.

- If you find yourself writing the same templating logic across several charts or needing to craft complex conditionals, consider using a shared Helm template for consistency rather than inlining.

## Making changes

### Step 1. Make changes in charts and values.yaml in `manifests` directory

Be sure to provide sufficient documentation and example usage in values.yaml.

- If the chart has a `values.schema.json`, that should be updated as well.

### Step 2. Update the istioctl/Operator values

If you are modifying the `gateway` chart, you can stop here.
All other charts, however, are exposed by `istioctl` and need to follow the steps below.

- The charts in the `manifests` directory are used in istioctl to generate an installation manifest.

- If `values.yaml` is changed, be sure to update corresponding values changes in [../profiles/default.yaml](../profiles/default.yaml)

### Step 3. Update istioctl schema

Istioctl uses a protobuf schema to allow for type-checking of all fields used in the charts.
If you're adding new fields to values, make sure to update the [values_types.proto](../../operator/pkg/apis/values_types.proto) file!.
Any changes to the schema must be added here, otherwise istioctl users will see errors.
Once the schema file is updated, run:

```bash
$ make operator-proto
```

This will regenerate the Go structs used for schema validation.

### Step 4. Update the generated manifests

Tests of istioctl use the auto-generated manifests to ensure that the istioctl binary has the correct version of the charts.

To regenerate the manifests, run:

```bash
$ make copy-templates update-golden
```

### Step 5. Create a PR using outputs from Steps 1 to 4

Your PR should pass all the checks if you followed these steps.

## Value deprecation

- Values may be marked as deprecated, but may not be removed until a minimum of 2 releases after the PR marking them as such is merged.

- If you are _marking_ a value as `deprecated`, the PR doing so **must* add a [release note](../../releasenotes/README.md) mentioning the value being deprecated, and any replacements/alternatives.

- When _removing_ a value that has been marked as `deprecated` for a minimum of 2 releases, **both** the `releaseNote` and `upgradeNote` fields must be populated in the release note in the removal PR, mentioning the value being removed, and any replacements/alternatives.
